---
layout: ../layouts/CaseStudyLayout.astro
name: Iterative Design
---

# Iteractive Design

## Intro

## Initial Sketches

## 1st Lofi Iteration

### Critique
The feedback we received from our peers included suggetsions regarding general formatting of our sketches and specific technical choices for ease of interpretation by the end users. Some suggestions included not having too much whitespace in our initial log-in/sing up screen in order to differentiate between the figma background and the frame background, making sure to include the scrollable history on all screens, and having consistent formatting across all the screens. Some thought the setup part might be confusing, especially for new developers, and suggestions included perhaps having a prompt before starting the technicals. One suggestion was to include some sort of progress indication regarding the length of the marketing survey and perhaps the entire onboarding experience. In addition, the "Other" option in the marketing survey with the included text box below it seemed confusing to some. Some points to consider were how multi-select would work within the clicking process, since a variable amount of options may be desired. Additional suggestions included having screens to introduce/transition between different parts of the first-time user experience (e.g. survey --> onboarding --> walkthrough), changing the name of the marketing survey to "intro survey" instead, and including a side panel that allows for between navigation and skipping through the onboarding experience.

The feedback we received from the client was quite sparse. Our contact suggested thinking about how the donwload flow would fit in to the process, since the first-time user experience is defined from the moment the user clicks "download" to the first 24 hours or even the first week of use. In additon, the suggestion to move the marketing survey into the "blocklist" or terminal view instead of the modal was repeated again.

## 2nd Lofi Iteration
Lofi 2nd-iteration Figma: https://www.figma.com/file/50TYCr9AH0QHsNiBSxBS9W/Warp-Onboarding-Final?type=design&mode=design&t=Jn5SAC6rQsVRtICP-1

We made a few noticeable changes to our first lo-fi mockup. The biggest change was to move the marketing survey into the "in-blocklist" terminal experience, as per suggested by our client. The primary reason for this was due to the fact that this suggestion had been repeated multiple times. Although we personally did not agree to the move as the optimal user experience, we felt that the opinion of the client should be prioritized over personal rationale regarding user optimality. We disagreed with incorporating the marketing survey into the in-blocklist terminal onboarding process mainly because we felt the dry rigor of clicking through a user survey offered little benefit to the first-time user, dimished incentive to continue with the onboarding process for Warp, and generally seemed out of place in such a critical time of experimentation for the first-time user. The process of clicking through questions one-at-a-time in the terminal does not seem conducive to providing the user with a broad overview of the features of Warp. It also brought up technical concerns regarding data transfer on the backend; the incorporation of the survey into the terminal allows for the viewing of one's history of survey responses, and the decision of whether to allow the user to change responses brought up considerations of when a user was considered to have completed a question and when the response data should be submitted to Warp. Furthermore, the need to potentially select multiple options within some questions surfaced concerns regarding whether a "finished" button was necessitated for each question. If so, the addition of such input between each question would only added to the tediousness of the process. We forewent the suggestion to change the name of the marketing survey, as that was the term colloquially used by our contact; we felt it was not apt to change a term they most likely already used within the company.

## Visual style guide

## High Fidelity Prototype

### Critique
During our meeting with the Warp designers, they shared their interest in our changes to the onboarding experience. They said they had not previously considered including the AI feature in their onboarding educational process but were intrigued by this possibility. They were also drawn to our use of block popups; we provided a new outlook that David had initially never considered to make the information stand out more to a user. We discussed the importance of the marketing survey, but they asked for further clarification on how a user could skip it. We shared the feature we had included to skip this process but decided that, given time for further development, we would need to make changes based on their feedback. They also wanted us to consider the survey following the typical scrollable history of blocklists. As a group, we discussed different ways to submit the survey information in a non-jarring way to receive user feedback while keeping users engaged in the onboarding process. Overall, David and Rob enjoyed our use of end-to-end prototyping and testing but suggested giving more thought to spacing, padding, and text size, given our group had more time for a complete, in-depth design. They appreciated our innovative and unique solutions and shared that we had sparked conversations that would lead to further development and iterations of the product. 

## Conclusion
Through this interactive design, we remodeled Warp’s onboarding survey and their education experience. Our group started by creating eight different sketches of the overall onboarding experience. We developed a low-fi design from here and received feedback and critiques from Warp founders on their thoughts and opinions. We took their recommendations to create a second low-fi design and style guide. We then developed a high-fidelity prototype of the sign-up/ login process leading into the marketing survey and the educational onboarding experience. We sent our final product and model to the founders. We received additional feedback on how the design could be further expanded, given a larger team of designers and more time to commit. As a group, we learned the value of collaborating and creating a product based on different opinions. We gained further insight into how to communicate, work, and design for a real company.
